matrixvoice.md, before:

## Get started for Matrix Voice

To get the code running I suggest you first reset the Voice if you have flashed it previously

- Follow Step 1 and 2 (or all steps) from this guide https://matrix-io.github.io/matrix-documentation/matrix-voice/esp32/
- Once your environment is set up go into the PlatformIO directory
- Copy and configure the `settings.ini.example` to `settings.ini` and configure the proper parameters. Any `$` in the `settings.ini` will be threated as an environment variable, did not find a way to escape it yet, fixes or workarounds are welcome
- Set the device_type to 1 in the settings.ini
- For the first flash, set the deployhost to the IP address of the attached pi and set method to 'matrix'
- Build and flash the project with PlatformIO, for example run `pio run --target upload` from the commandline
- After first flash you can use 'ota' as method under the OTA section in the settings.ini
- If you change code and OTA does not work anymore for some reason, you can always start over by doing the "get started" part except for the first bullet

## Known issues
- As per this issue https://github.com/Romkabouter/ESP32-Rhasspy-Satellite/issues/94 the Matrix Voice only supports buster. Read that issue for a possible work-around

Commit message:

Update matrixvoice.md to use github repo instead of matrix.io repo
Since the matrix.io repo is offline, it is not possible to follow the linked guide in the Readme.

The repo https://github.com/qnlbnsl/Matrix-IO provides an updated version of matrix-creator-init, which is working (at the time of writing).

matrixvoice.md, after:

## Get started for Matrix Voice

To get the code running I suggest you first reset the Voice if you have flashed it previously

- Follow Step 1 and 2 (or all steps) from this guide https://matrix-io.github.io/matrix-documentation/matrix-voice/esp32/
  
  Since the matrix.io repository at apt.matrix.one is offline, install the matrix-creator-init by using this repo https://github.com/qnlbnsl/Matrix-IO
- Once your environment is set up go into the PlatformIO directory
- Copy and configure the `settings.ini.example` to `settings.ini` and configure the proper parameters. Any `$` in the `settings.ini` will be threated as an environment variable, did not find a way to escape it yet, fixes or workarounds are welcome
- Set the device_type to 1 in the settings.ini
- For the first flash, set the deployhost to the IP address of the attached pi and set method to 'matrix'
- Build and flash the project with PlatformIO, for example run `pio run --target upload` from the commandline
- After first flash you can use 'ota' as method under the OTA section in the settings.ini
- If you change code and OTA does not work anymore for some reason, you can always start over by doing the "get started" part except for the first bullet

## Known issues
- As per this issue https://github.com/Romkabouter/ESP32-Rhasspy-Satellite/issues/94 the Matrix Voice only supports buster. Read that issue for a possible work-around
